The Menu interface was changed to allow “adding a database” to be choice number 1. This was so that a user upon startup would not have to load a text file every time they open the program. A search function for each of the five searches was also created. This was done in order to make the code more readable and correspond better with how the program operates. Much like the index array building functions mentioned later on, a method for each searchable term was used in order to avoid the problem of having one very large function to handle all searchable terms. While possibly saving a few lines of code, changes to that function at a later time would be much more complicated than dealing with separate functions. A checkout function was also added to the program that handles the checking in and out of DVD’s. Along with this the user is also notified if there search yielded no results while they are brought back to the main menu. A large addition to the program came from the addition of index arrays for all of the searchable terms. Because of this, searches do not have to be exhaustive through the whole linked list, they are exhaustive through a sorted array of the searchable terms. This makes searching much quicker in cases where there are a lot of DVD’s loaded into the database. This was accomplished through creating a function for each searchable term that would create the corresponding index array. The index arrays, which contain the searchable term and a node pointer to that searchable term, are sorted using exchange sort. Exchange sort was used as opposed to bubble sort because there is no need in exchange sort to traverse the array after making all of its swaps for items that are out of order. However, minor a difference, this was seen as a better fit for the program. Another addition to the program was the text file checking feature. This stops the user from entering in the same text file twice to the database. Two functions were created to accomplish this, fileAdd and fileCheck. FileCheck checks to see if the DVD is already in the database and fileAdd adds the DVD to the database. Aside from these changes, the only other variance from the original design can be seen in some of the menu choices where users have the ability to go back to the main menu in cases such as viewing a DVD. This way they are not forced into checking the DVD in or out. Very minor improvements to the UI experience can be found throughout.
